---
id: 1447
title: Divine Thinking and Personal Reality
date: 2013-03-11T04:43:00+00:00
author: admin
layout: post
guid: http://www.thedailyevie.com/?p=1447
permalink: /2013/03/11/divine-thinking-and-personal-reality/
categories:
  - General
---
We often identify ourselves with our physical body, with our emotions, and with our mind. These three principles represent our personality. We are often led to believe that the personality is the Self, whereas it is simply a persona, a mask that the Soul wears that it may function in the lower dimensions. The personality is mortal and subject to change. It is not the permanent part of our being. Should we identify with the personality we assume the characteristics of mortality with its sense of limitation and lack. In the long run we lose our true sense of identity. We feel that our identity is somehow displaced and know no longer what we are. By this false identification we block the entry of spiritual forces into the lower aspect of our microcosmic being. We also close our consciousness from higher perception and awareness.

By knowing, being aware, and identifying ourselves with our Reality, we liberate ourselves from a sense of separation from God&#8211;which is spiritually impossible. We are God&#8217;s expression; God is our essence. By essentially knowing our true Self, we come to realize God; we come to realize the infinite creative potentials that lie within our divinity. Please note, however, that what we mean by &#8220;true Self&#8221; is far different from the usual understanding of the term. It is not the hidden desires and characteristics that lie within the subconscious mind, nor is it what most artists normally refer to as their true self when they express themselves on canvas. The True Self is not the subconscious mind, nor the conscious mind alone. It is the Divine Spark&#8217;s Cosmic Consciousness or God&#8217;s Divine Awareness of Its inherent Existence and Bliss within the microcosm at a lower level, and in the macrocosm at a higher level. Always identify yourself with the God-Spark within you. Essentially, all of God&#8217;s attributes are to be found within you as well.

Knowing Cosmic Laws that generates all the contents of the Omniverse

When we begin to know and understand the laws of our inherent existence we should begin to align ourselves and cooperate with Cosmic forces. We come to realize that the many beliefs and attitudes that govern our mundane existence are false and have no universal basis in truth. We learn that life is eternal and that our divine essence is immortal. By understanding Cosmic laws we would eventually come to understand our Self and the many roles that it plays in the world of form; we would also be able to differentiate between the Real and the unreal; that which is True and that which is False. We would grasp how and why our divinity should be expressed and manifested on the physical plane. Aside from this it will eventually dawn upon us that we are really one with God, one of God, and one as God; and that separation is simply an illusion. If God is everywhere present, he is also present within us. More accurately, everything is an expression of the Source of Life, and this includes us.

Knowing the Plan of God

Most of us live without a sense of purpose in life. To most people it is unknown that all human beings have a mission in life. The Divine Mind has a Plan for humanity, a Plan for Planet Earth and the Solar System. This Plan is related to the divine and eternal aspect of man. The more we understand this Divine Plan, the more we are impelled to assist in its manifestation and fulfillment. All of our thinking will be aligned with the Will of God. Every one is sojourning on this physical plane for the purpose of fulfilling his or her mission and manifesting the Divine Plan of God upon Earth. When we think in terms of this Plan we invoke the aid of higher forces and live in accord with God&#8217;s Will. The &#8220;mortal will&#8221; should be set aside to channel the Divine Will. Our will would be to express God&#8217;s Will as God&#8217;s desire is to express our divine desire. By being cognizant and attentive of Cosmic Order and the Plan we begin to live in terms of selflessness, service, sacrifice and the elimination of egoistic qualities for the good of all. Knowing the Plan of God expands our consciousness and helps us to see beyond mortal vision.

Knowing that there is no separation between Man, God and Nature

Our mortal sense of duality makes us assume a defensive-offensive attitude. We attack others due to a sense of separation and fear. We should begin to realize that there is only One Substance, One Power, One Mind, One Self in the Omniverse, and this One Progenitor manifests as the varied and manifold structures of energies that we perceive. Relatively speaking, the many phenomena and things that we cognizant are all illusions. They are all expressions of the One. By knowing that every form is illusory and are merely appearances, that behind all realities is Energy, the One Universal Substratum that we call God, the Void, Universal Essence, etc, we will eventually begin to think, act and behave accordingly&#8211;according to Truth. We would know that to hurt another we would simply be hurting ourselves, that what we give out eventually returns to us. Always regard another as yourself, as a divine presence of God. The precept &#8220;Do unto others as you would others do unto you,&#8221; is related to this principle.

Knowing that everything has a cause, has a purpose that the mortal mind may not know or understand.

To think divinely we should always keep in mind that nothing occurs without a purpose, that there are no accidents, or coincidences; that everything is based upon Cosmic law. Even-though consciously we may not know why things occur as they do, realize that everything will eventually have effects beneficial to soul-growth. The person who thinks divinely will never be overwhelmed with sufferings and sorrows for he or she knows the divine purpose of life through the constant atonement with the Divine Self.

Knowing that one&#8217;s true SELF is already immortal and divine

Immortality need not be searched frantically for in dark places, for it is already a reality in the light of our Divine Presence. Death is not the end, nor is it a beginning. We conquer death by realizing its non-existence, its illusory nature. A Master once said that &#8220;that which is Real cannot be threatened, that which is false does not exist.&#8221; The Self that we are is beyond hurt, pain, suffering, and sorrow. It is immortal and divine. When we are submerged in a &#8220;gloom and doom&#8221; attitude it signifies that we are identifying ourselves with all that is unreal in us. The Self, or its threefold nature&#8211;existence, consciousness and bliss, cannot be extinguished. By continuously thinking from this level, by maintaining our consciousness on this plane of thought&#8211;that our essential being, our Self is immortal&#8211;we strengthen the influence of our highest aspect upon the lowest vehicles of our microcosmic being.